For our project we will be creating a (Iphone or Android) app. The team was has access to Dreamweaver CS5 which has an app GUI and will be using this tool to code the app. The idea is to have a fitness app with multiple functions. It would know when the user has done certain activities to better their health. This would include working out or following a diet. The app would let the user pick how they were trying to lose weight and categories would include losing weight, gaining muscle, gaining stamina, gaining energy, etc. When the user picked a category, they would be presented with a
schedule that they could make more or less demanding before setting it, and once the schedule is set the app would give alarms or notifications asking the user if they followed the schedule to which the user would only have to give a yes or no response. In this way, the app would gather the data and track a user’s workout/diet schedule and overall progress and/or faithfulness to the program. We also have an idea of adding GPS functionality with google maps to be able to see if a user is visiting a gym if it is part of a schedule as a motivation technique. If the app notices the GPS location is not that of the gym they should be at, it will alarm the user.

The group decided to try to avoid an application that needed a user to input data over and over so the app could have the proper user data to function. This is why an important part of the app will include the algorithms for setting a schedule and also the honesty of the user for proper function. With this functionality, the user won’t be responsible for entering data often and the data needed from them will only require the push of one button. It is convenient and quick for users who tend to be lazy and shows a user how well they are doing towards achieving their health goal.
